"This Pantheon...If they're responsible for everything that happened to my world-"
"Then you ignore them," First said coldly, "They are not a force that you should concern yourself with. They created your world, they looked after it, and they're what's ensured your continued survival and your victory over the forces of evil. You have no reason to side against them."
Celestia stomped her hoof angrily.
"They're the reason we suffered so dearly! Everypony who ever died in tragedy...The many wars with changelings and the Spider Legion and the Atlanteans...Discord, windigoes, humans, the Nameless One, the Time Worm, Tirac, Sliske, my sister's corruption...They did it all! Didn't they?!"
First kept a neutral expression.
"They did."
"Then I have plenty of reason to side against them! Second may be evil, but this Pantheon is made of dozens of humans just like him, and they've done more to harm Equestria than he ever did! I'm not proud of my decision, but evil like that needs to be put down, for the sake of the majority!"
She turned away from him.
"Princess, how do you justify killing my father? In your sense of morality, why were you okay with the idea of killing him up until you decided to switch sides?"
Celestia looked back over her shoulder.
"...Because you told me to. And he would come to no real harm. He'd just end up in your afterlife, wouldn't he?"
"Exactly. Here's a thought though. The Pantheon doesn't exist in Equestria. They live in the human world. And in the human world, I have no idea if there exists any kind of afterlife at all. What if there isn't an equivalent to me back in my universe? For all I know, in the human world, death is death, and you just cease to exist. Knowing that, Celestia, could you still kill the Pantheon?"
"...I..."
"And what for? I don't doubt you believe Second deserves to die, because of all the evil he has committed. What about them though? They're not even evil."
"How can they not be evil?!" Celestia demanded, "After all the lives they've ruined?! All the disasters and monsters they've inflicted on this world?!"
"They're no more evil than any author writing a book!" First snapped, "Understand what I'm saying here. The Pantheon is not evil. It just doesn't care."
"Doesn't care about all the lives it is ruining?!"
"No. Not because they're sociopaths or whatever, but because you're simply meaningless to them. Try to think of it this way. Before I told you everything, did you consider characters in books to be real living creatures?"
"No."
"No. And neither do they. You're not real to them. They can't come here, and we can't go up there, so they'll always believe that. Even if they are doing an experiment in meta storytelling about fictional characters realising what they are, those humans back in the human world still won't actually believe that fictional characters are real, they never will, and they can never be convinced.
"They're not just a bunch of all-powerful deities who don't care about the mortals. They simply don't understand that they're causing pain and suffering, because as far as they're concerned, you don't exist. In their eyes, you are not a real being. You are words on paper and digital drawings on a computer. You are so much less than an actual living being in their eyes, so far below them on a cosmic scale, that they barely recognise your existence, and even then only as a pony would regard an insect, if that.
"They could destroy you and this entire universe and think nothing of it, or feel nothing about it, because the idea of thinking of fictional characters as real is bizarre and alien to them. In their eyes you, your sister, your little ponies, and even me and my father are all just that insignificant."
Celestia stared at him in horror.
"Maybe now you see why I use so many Lovecraft comparisons? I don't refer to us as Elder Gods for nothing."