I just realized how amusingly comic book complicated this would be if it was all explained.

---
"Wait, you mean my superspeed didn't come from the Flash?"
"No it was a chemical synthesized by Grayven."
"The Son of Darkseid who came to take over the world?"
"Actually he came to help us dispose of the Thanagarian invaders."
"Ah, but then he turned and tried to take over the world!"
"No. He found out that the President was an android under control of SHADE."

"So that's why he crashed the president's speech? But he was doing the evil laugh and acting all villain 101."

"Yes, he did that to put on a public show and try to manipulate public perception into needing a group of Superheroes to overlookprotect the world."

"-and to expose the president as a robo at the same time!"
"Apokolips infiltration unit."
"Wait Apokolips? But doesn't Grayven come from there? Family issues?"
"No this is an alternate Grayven from parallel dimension that I recruited."
"Oh that's good, so he had no relation to the Apokolips from here."

"Well he's not the actually Grayven so his sympathies were unlikely to align with them regardless."

"...what?"

"The Grayven I brought forth was actually a human named Paul who originated from a dimension that lacked a lot of our metaphysically aspects and laws."
"So when you brought him here he turned into Grayven, how does that work?"
"It doesn't. Paul was originally displaced from his dimension and ended up in another."
"Ours?"
"No another, remember I brought him here. From there he used his power ring to augment himself and take on the persona of that universe's Grayven."

"This is starting to hurt my head."

"From there he began to manipulate public opinion into a more heavy handed approach to handling villains."
"Goes from displaced to shaping public opinion-"
"In a year."
"What the fuck, how!? I'm still getting used to this!"
"Power ring and Meta-Knowledge."
"Meta-what-now?"
"Knowledge of future events from multiple timelines, alongside the locations of various important people and artifacts."

"I take he didn't read this in a library."

"He might have. From what I can tell his original reality-"
"The one that he came from not the one that you pulled him from?"

"Yes. The original dimension he came from while lacking in in any extraordinary metaphysics has detailed archives of numerous metaphysical enriched worlds. Our world. In the form of comic books and literature. "

"Ow! So the dude who gave me my powers was actually?"

"A comic-book fan displaced into a world where he gained a power ring modeled himself after Darkseid's son got recruited by me into our world and pretended to act like a villain in order to stop an invasion and serve as a catalyst to create a new league."

"Wow. T-that's a complicated backstory."
"Takes up an entire server on the satellite